I'd like to welcome our
new sponsor. Couchbase Couchbase is
an open source, no SQL
document and key value store
database requires no external cash
supports CQL and analytical queries
for Jason data Couchbase supports
technologies like Kubernetes, java.net, JavaScript,
go and Python. Download it,
give it a try at
couchbase.com/hansel minutes. That's couchbase.com/hansel minutes.
And I'll remind you that
when you support our sponsors,
you support this show. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with Ralph Campbell. He's
a senior manager of the
electronics department of the Lego
group. How are you, sir?
I'm doing great. Scott. Good
to meet you. The Legos
in the house era, just
for the kids, you can't
judge me. I'm just storing
them for the children. Of
course, of course. Then they
have full access to it
and they never come into
your room and there's some
paperwork they have to fill
out. I check them out
like a librarian, you know,
just because it's their education.
It's the future of the
value of their education, right?
It's an investment. Really? Yeah.
You need to safeguard that
you can't really do. So
you are an electronics and
firmware engineer. You've been one
for, for many years. Are
you primarily embedded systems in
your career? Yeah, it's pretty
much straight ahead. Embedded systems.
If it's a, if it's
not on, on the metal,
I'm not that I'm not
interested, but it's just something
that I don't need to,
I don't need to worry
about. So you've been doing
that for almost 30 years.
And has it been forgive
my ignorance? I'm going to
ask ignorant questions cause that's
my superpower. Is it been
basically C code for 30
years talking to the metal
of these systems? Well, yeah,
I guess it's a, if
I look at the full
span, it's been almost 40
years. I'm ashamed to say,
but a, it started out
in assembler language. Actually I
learned to program on an
HP 41 CV calculator. So
that's, that's how far back
though? That goes. Yeah. So
you start started in assembler,
but really for the last
30, 35 years, it's been
in C and embedded C.
And when we look at
the, the upleveling of the
technology that is available to
children, the idea that a
child could have a Lego
system that is itself a
computer, what is the thing
that has happened over the
last 40 years that has
enabled that? Is it just
chips get faster, things, get
smaller. Why is it possible
that like the PC that
you learned on, it's probably
less powerful than one of
the new Lego elements that
you're working on? I, yeah,
I think that's a fair
statement. So Lego Mindstorms has
gone. We've got pretty much
a 20 year history and
I've been involved since the
beginning on that one. So
if you remember the yellow
RCX device that was running
on, I think, well, I
can't remember the speed exactly,
but it was a dumb
little eight, eight, eight bit
microprocessor than the NXT, which
was the second generation. That
was a, basically an arm
seven. So up to 32
Bit the , which, which
I founded  dev, which
is a full Linux distribution
that runs on the .
That's a, that's a full
arm nine and it's actually
rocking pretty hard that one.
And now we've got a
spike prime that we just
released this January and we're
back down to an arm
on that one. But the
cool thing is that we've
got a micro pipe and
I think that's one of
the, one of the most
amazing thing that's happened in
the last five years is
the, the amount of effort
that's gone to, to put
micro Pythen on a mic
on a microprocessor. So you,
you can get, you know,
pie boards, ADA fruit has
a bunch of different boards,
and I'm, I'm really glad
to say that Lego mines
or Lego, sorry, Lego spike
prime has micro Pythen as
kind of a core, core
way of doing things. So
you can, you can actually
program it a plug, plug
it in over USB, and
it looks like a serial
terminal and you can just
click away and, and put
Python code right on there.
Traditionally, when I've seen embedded
systems in toys, I have
found in the past that
the companies tend to put
a friendly face on it.
It's like, here's our thing.
Here's our toy. Like, here's
an  for example, which
has a wonderful Lego kit
that you can still get
today. And then here is
our, our IDE right, our
integrated development environment for children.
Do you think that there's
a movement towards being able
to say, all right, here's
a text file. Here's a
USB drive. Just start, start
coding. And when does one
start stop? And when is
one end? Yeah, that's a
really good question. I think
putting, putting a friendly face
on, on programming is something
that Lego has always been
really interested in doing. You
can see that if it's,
if it's drag and drop,
if there's a gooey, that
must mean it's kid friendly,
right? And that, that bar
was really raised for me
when I watched some young
kids, the session brothers who
are really big  fans
and now spike prime fans
as well. They're really quite
famous in the FLL world.
These little guys picked up
a Python programming just like
that. So it's really not
just for kids, graphical programming.
So we're seeing a lot
more of a, of a
drive towards text-based programming as
well. But at the same
time we do spike prime
does support scratch programming. So
you've got a nice scratchy
interface on the, on your
gooey. And then if you
really want to, you can
lift the lid and a
programming. Micropipets I think that
that's really, really significant. I
mean, spike prime is a
very accessible environment where a
young kid at a nine,
10, 11 year old can
look at it and go,
Oh, I know this, this
is Lego. And then I
can start adding in the
more interactive elements, but was
there a conscious decision to
say, you know, if someone
wants to pop the hood
and look at the engine
and really, you know, move
fast and break things, we
are going to allow that
as to maybe in the
past, not at Lego, but
at other companies where it's
don't hack are things you're
really encouraging that you're allowing
people to pop the hood
and start playing at the
low. Yep. I think that's,
I'm not so sure it
was a conscious decision. That's
kind of a happy accident.
I've I've been involved with,
with Lego Mindstorms components or
elements for the last 20
years, not officially with Lego,
but as a, as an
a fall, that's a adult
fan of Lego. And it's
a term that you've obviously
heard from other people as
well. What, what I've always
wanted to do. And what
I have been done doing
in the past is putting
a text based language on
every  or sorry, every
Mindstorms brick that's been released.
So for RCX I developed
PB Lua, which was a,
sorry, PB fourth, which is
a fourth based programming language
for the NXT. I made
PB Lua, which is a
Lua interface for the NXT
for  of course we
pushed the whole, you know,
real, all singing, all dancing,
Debbie and Linux on that.
And here the, again, the
happy accident of being able
to put micro Pythen on
a brick was just too
good of a too good
of a match to pass
up. And, and I've always
been an advocate of, of
people being able to kind
of open things up and
hack things if you want
to. And what we've done
here with spike prime is
given adults or kids, but
hopefully kids, the ability to
get familiar with gain confidence.
That's one of our main
goals here is to make
spike primarily accessible and confidence
building tool for kids to
learn coding. Once you're happy
with the S with what
you can do with scratch,
if you choose to, you
can lift the lid and
really go full steam ahead
with Python. So it's kind
of interesting that you were
an adult fan of Lego.
You were messing around with
this stuff. You were doing
things with  PB Lewa,
bringing a full Linux distribution
to the . You would
think that in the past
a company would not say,
Oh, you should work here.
They would probably send you
a cease and desist and
say, Hey, knock that off.
Yeah. And that's a, that
history goes all the way
back to the RCX myself
and a few other fans
that were kind of a
little more intense than most
fans. I guess I hacked
hack the RCX. We were
completely reverse engineered the, the,
the code for that. And
I met some of the
original designers of the RCX
set, the one of the
first MIT mind fests. And
when we showed them the
source code that we had
in reverse engineered, it was
one of those, Oh, this
is actually almost nicer than
ours. It was a one
for one disassembly, but with
all the comments and everything
that we'd put in, it
was, it was pretty much
a one for one. So
at the time, I don't
think Lego really was, how
do you want to say
in a cease and desist
mode, they were, they were
kind of happy to see
fans getting so much energy.
And when they realized the
positive buzz that the fan
community was, was delivering, they
just said, you know what,
go nuts, do what you
can just don't use the
Lego name and whatever a
replacement for him or you,
you, you produce, I don't
really think that that's, that's
great. And I love that
Lego is that kind of
progressive. And that forward-looking because
they understand that this isn't
hacking to break things. This
is hacking to make things
better. And then when you
have the, like you said,
the happy accidents, if you
start bringing these higher level
languages to these, these systems,
now you've got micro Python
on a spike prime, and
you're really encouraging people to
pop the hood. You say,
if you want to use
our regular tools, that's great.
Otherwise plug it in. It
looks like a USB drive
and micro Python just lets
you save a text file
into a folder. And suddenly
you feel at least like
you're The low level. Yep.
Actually just a quick correction.
We took away the, the
USB drive. It just looks
like a serial port. So
you just get a terminal
as a Chrome port. Yep.
I know the regular PI
board has the, has the
USB file system on it.
But for us, that was
a little bit too risky
in terms of, if you
unplugged it at the wrong
time, you couldn't work the
file system. So we've got
little Fs, which is another
open source file system. That's
that's used and that's pretty
much power safe and redundant
Martin. We should actually juxtapose
juxtapose those things because in
micro Python and in circuit
Python, you plug in these
machines and they look like
a file system, but you're
right. If you surprise, release
or surprise remove, you could
potentially get into trouble. But
with something like spike prime,
you really want it to
be reliable for the kids
at all times. They shouldn't
be able to brick they're
brick they're brick. Right, right.
Yeah. And that's, and we,
we do have a, there's
a always a fail safe,
so you can't actually break
it. So that's, so that's
a good news. You can
replace firmware. And if it's
a bad image, you can
always get back to the,
to the default. What is
the, are there any kinds
of ways to inter-operate like
we have a bunch of
stuff. We have a
bunch of existing elements and
NXTs, I realized that we
probably can't interact from a
software perspective, but is there
any thought about like reusing
motors or bringing any motors
Forward? Yeah, that's a, that's
a great question. So Evie
three and NXT use a
kind of a modified RJ
11 Jack for, for their
motor and sensor connections and
with a spike prime we're
now on what's called the
powered up connector platform. So
that means that all of
the recent Lego components or
Lego elements such as the,
the train motor and the,
you know, the LEDs and
the, the motors that are
available from the, the newer
technic kits, those all will
fit in with your spike
spike. That's fantastic. So it
is awesome. It is amazing.
Wow. Because I want to
be, I mean, I want
to be able to, you
know, deal with my existing
investment, but I also want
the children to be thinking
about other things, like, what
is the thing beyond spike?
Is it, is it something
that is a Lego product
or is it something that's
more traditional, you know, traditional
motors and microprocessors a raspberry
pie. Yeah. Well, so just
to be clear, the
and NXT motors and sensors
will not work with spike
prime. Right, right, right. That's
nice. But, but any of
the existing Lego components that
use the powered up connector
do, Then the ones that
use the newer powered up
connector yep. That are not
spike prime specific they're Lego
motorized elements. Yeah. They're just
a, that's the new that
if you see that connector,
we just, Right. Yes. You
see, okay. I see. Power
it up. Okay. Now appreciate
that. I was curious, actually
I wanted to back up
a little bit, the Eve
three dev project that you
founded, I think is significant
because it is, it's really
a two full Linux distribution
for an . Yeah. It's
a completely, it basically full
Debbie and distribution. So you
can do internet. Well, it's
a, it's an arm nine
there's 64 megs of Ram,
which is a, which is
a lot when you think
about it compared to compared
to some things there's maybe
not much anymore, it's probably
a router has more and
more Ram in it than
that, but it's enough to
actually get things going. We've
got a full Python image
processing. You can hook up
an old USB Lego camera
to the  and take
screen grabs, or actually take
selfies with that. There's people
that have done that. There's,
there's been projects for radio
streaming, like from the internet,
there's all kinds of IOT
applications for it. It's really,
really awesome. And I think
there was a competition recently
with integrating the V3 with
it with Alexa. So it's,
it's a pretty awesome system.
And what's really exciting about
that for folks that maybe
are thinking about getting a
spike prime, but they've already
got  it's not actually
firmware. Right. You can put
an SD card in you
basically dual boot, you try
out your, the, the
dev and then if you
don't like it, you pull
out the micro SD card.
There's no flashing of that.
That  that's correct. Yeah.
Yeah. That's really significant. So
w in the, in the
spike prime space, is this
meant to be the next
generation of motorized and computerized
Lego things? Or is it
a, is it a shoot
off? How do you think
about the generations of, of
those things? Sure. Well, spike
prime is a, is part
of the Lego learning system.
So that's a, that's part
of Lego education, which is
separate from the retail retail
side of the business. But
again, that's, it's completely compatible
with any of the retail,
retail elements. We're all sequestered
at home right now. And
I've got kids. You might
be able to hear them
causing trouble outside right now,
the, the Lego spike prime
set, it's really focused on
education, even though we're homeschooling
at this point, I can
go and buy this@education.lego.com. Absolutely.
You can. Yeah. And I
think that's a, it's kind
of a happy coincidence. Well,
maybe it's not a happy
coincidence that we're in the
middle of this kind of
lockdown, both in the States
and here in Denmark, but
it's, I think it's a
great opportunity to reconnect with,
with your kids and their
kind of day to day
life and a, an opportunity
to, for everybody, I think,
to kind of learn deeply
if you, if you've had
a thing that you've not
been able to do, because
you've got a lack of
time, this is a great
time to actually dig deep
a little bit and, and
do some learning and do
some developing. And I'm trying
to keep them off screens
And how they'll be on
an iPad and they'll be
working with the spike prime,
but they won't be at
least playing fortnight. So that
makes me happy. Yeah. Well,
you know, that's the other
part about, about Lego is
a, it's a fantastic building
system and it's extremely well
thought out. So you'll find
that the construction that you
can do with spike prime,
it is super easy to
put together a two wheel
bot and start moving, moving
around. But if you want
to add a, you know,
extra actions like a ball
thrower or something like that,
you can, and there's all
kinds of resources on the
web that you can find
that, that help you kind
of explore and give you
inspiration for building new things.
The main thing that, that
spike prime gives kids, I
think, and, and parents too
is, is it's kind of,
it's an approachable, discoverable confidence
building system. It doesn't look
scary. There's three buttons. Plus
the plus the connect button
on the top. There's no
menus, there's no fancy screens
or anything to look through.
It's basically you hit the
left and right button to
select a swipe left and
swipe, right. To pick which
program number, press the big
white button in the middle.
And that go, it's a
go And kids already know
how to use their iPad.
So they're basically moving around,
scratch like elements on an
iPad or on a tablet
or PC and there in
order to interact with it
from a, unless they choose
to do it in a
textual mode. Right. Yeah. But
it is, it is scratch.
It is scratch. Scratch. Scratch
MIT scratch. Oh yeah. It's
MIT scratch. Okay. So what
does that relationship between a
micro Python and scratch? Is
it a, is it a
mode? Is it a switch?
That's a, that's a great
question. So underneath we actually
trans compiler trans trans pile.
If you start making portmanteaus,
you can, transpile the, whatever
the scratch scratch blocks are
translated into actual, pretty dense
and hard to read Python.
You wouldn't, if you were
to program the robot and
Python, you wouldn't do it
that way, but it gives
a, it gives the app
a way to, you know,
manage feedback from the motors.
And so your screen gets
updates and all that, but
yeah, it translates the scratch
blocks into Python code. Ah,
interesting. So it, you just
said something, you just kinda
threw it out there casually,
but you said it gives
the app a way to
like, you know, update the
screen. You're you're actually doing
kind of aspect oriented programming
where like the person expresses
their intent, move the motor,
but you're injecting other lines
of code around it so
that it might update itself
before and after events. So
that it's completely instrumented code.
Yes, it is interesting. It's
pretty cool. I mean, when
you get a chance to
play with it with your
kids, I think will be
a arm wrestling for it
for the rest of the
day. I'm looking forward to
it. No one wants to
manage databases. If they can
avoid it. That's why Mongo
DB made Mongo DB Atlas,
a global cloud database service
that runs on AWS, GCP
and Azure. You can deploy
a fully managed Mongo DB
database in minutes with just
a few clicks or a
few API calls, Mongo DB,
Atlas, automates deployment, automates updates,
handles scaling, and more so
that you can focus on
your application instead of taking
care of your database, you
can get started free@mongodb.com slash
Atlas. Now, if you're already
managing a Mongo DB deployment,
Atlas has a live migration
service, so you can migrate
it easily with minimal downtime
and then get back to
what matters. Stop managing your
database and start using Mongo
DB Atlas. I'm curious, also
there are add on. So
if you get to the
idea that your classroom or
your kids may be somehow
outgrowing it, there's this Lego
technic large hub for spike
prime. So it's a way
to extend it even more.
You add this brick and
you get important output supports
for even more Stuff. Oh
no. The Lego technic large
hub is the standalone. That's
just a standalone component that
you can order that comes
in the original kit. Oh,
interesting. Okay. Well, hang on
a second. So the hub
is that that's the brain,
that's the heart of it,
right? That's the left right
buttons. You've got your light
matrix five by five graphics.
You've got Bluetooth, you've got
your gyro and you've got
your USB support. And it
says you can use that
with the technic elements that
you mentioned before. So I
see. So that's the heart,
if you wanted to buy
that. And then if you
wanted more, you would buy
the expansion kit to the
spike price. Yeah. So the,
the spike prime a box,
as you see, it also
comes with two media motors,
one large motor, a color
sensor, a really awesome color
sensor, actually that gives you
everything from a standard Lego
colors, or you can put
it in a, a mode
called HSV, which gives you
a saturation and value. That's
pretty cool. We've got an
ultrasonic range finder and there's
a force sensor that measures
from a zero to 10
Newtons of force. And then
the expansion kit that you're
seeing there is really for
kids that are going into
FLL type competition. So it
gives them an extra motor,
some bigger, bigger wheels, better,
bigger gears, that kind of
thing. Okay. You know, actually
speaking of the color sensor
stuff, one of the most
fun things, and I think
the, the, the, the culmination
of our  experience of
course, as, as, as with
everyone, is to create a,
a Rubik's cube solver. Yep.
Right. I'm sure you've made
those before. And, you know,
being able to actually put
a, it blows minds, like
it's absolutely amazing to go
and put a Rubik's cube
into an  harness and
have it solve the, the
roots. Yeah. Yeah. That's, I
mean, that's a, that's pretty
amazing. I think the Rubik's
cube algorithm actually runs on
a PC, but all the
moves and everything are executed
on the  or no,
this one, I'm sorry. The
one you've got is the
solver 50 page PDF, and
it took us a week
to do it. And it's
really slow. Like it works
hard cause it's a big,
you know, your trap deepen
double four loops. It's quite
amazing. It's written entirely in
the  language, which just,
which gets me to my
actual, my actual question there,
which is what is the
most impossible thing you saw
that someone built with spike
prime where you said, I
did not think this would
be a thing. The name
of it. Well, spike prime
has only been out since
January. So Except for internally,
like you're all hacking on
it. You're all playing with
it. Right. Is there a
robot walking around in the
hallways there at Lego that
we No comment, but no,
when we do have a,
we do have some internal
build competitions, but honestly it's
been such a frantic race
to get this thing out
the door that we, we
do play with it. But
there's, I mean, there's a
couple of things like a
balancers, like segway kind of
robots. We've seen those, I
guess you could do a
segway, couldn't you? Yeah, sure.
There's there's color sorters. There's,
you know, robots that can
sort your bricks by color
and I kind of thing.
So there's, I'm, I'm really
excited to see what the
fans come up with over,
over the next few years.
We've got a, if you
look at the , some
of the models that fans
have built, there are just
mind blowing. We've got a
ones that one that's actually
the most impressive one I've
seen as two pixie cams
attached to the . So
it's getting a stereo image
crab, and it's estimating where
a ball is in three
space and you can actually
throw a ball at it
and it'll move and catch
the ball. It's completely mind
blowing. Wow. Yeah. And you
know, it's interesting, those things
take a while to kind
of marinate in the community.
Like they put a thing
out and someone achieves something
and you go, wow, that's
it it's like the Rubik's
cube sorter was the pinnacle.
And then a year goes
by and someone says, well,
what if we did? And
then the stereoscopic vision thing
goes, and you know what,
I'm sure no one ever
conceived that there would be
like a three space capable
Lego elements. Well, yeah. And
that's the, that's the coolest
part about being able to
inspire one of, one of
our missions or our statements
is that we want to
inspire and develop the builders
of tomorrow. And we love
it when, when kids and
adults used our elements in
ways that are completely unanticipated,
that's kind of where innovation
is, right. It's combining known
objects and known materials in,
in unexpected ways. And when,
when fans, you know, when
they do fancy, fancy mocks
or my own creations for
people that aren't familiar with,
the acronyms, they combine elements
in ways that we have
no idea would ever be
used. And we really love
seeing that with technology elements
too. When you say late,
you said Lego Mach Yes.
MOC my own creation. Mine,
I own creation. So we've
got adult fans of Lego.
Yeah. AFL we've got my
own creation. And then the
Lego ideas has been another
interesting thing where a lot
of innovation, it was such
a progressive thing for Lego
to do, to say, all
right, you all want this
to make these vote, put
your mouth, you know, put
your vote where your mouth
is. Yeah, no, I think
that's been a really fantastic
program. That's been some great
models that have come out
of that and everything from
the space station, the Saturn
five rocket, I've got the
women of NASA right over
here. Correct. I've got the
women of NASA too. And
I've actually got mine signed.
I buy two of the
ladies. Yeah. Margaret Hamilton. I've got
Margaret Hamill. You have Margaret Hamilton.
I have mine. Yeah. I
know it's a, it, you
know, that photo actually, it's
funny. We talked about a
little earlier about people that
have inspired us. And for
me, as a, as a
young engineer, that picture of
Margaret Hamilton standing next to this
giant stack of printouts, that
was for me, was like,
wow, that is pretty cool.
There's a lot of neat
stuff happening on, on, on
rockets and lunar excursion module.
Yeah. So that's actually kind
of interesting, the, the original
yellow RCX by Lego, it
actually had more compute power
than the computer that was
on the limb, which is
mindblowing. Right. So Let's just
drink that in for a
second, because that really tells
us how things have been
moving forward. Like RCX was
How long ago? Just over
20 years ago now. Okay.
Okay. So 20 years ago
there were Lego elements that
we could use to teach
children how to code that
had more power than the
machine that took us to
the moon. Yup. And that's
completely mind blowing when you
think about it. A little
known fact, the memory in
the, in the limbs was
rope core memory, magnetic rope,
core memory. And they actually
hired ladies that were knitters
and Sowers and crochet heirs
to thread the thread, the
magnets into the, into the
magnetic core memory. So reprogramming,
it actually meant, you know,
knitting effectively a new memory
space for, for that. It
was it's completely mind blowing
when you look at the
technology and all done in
what, 10 years crazy While
we're, while we're geeking out
about being old, I was
at Bletchley park and I
went there on a random
Tuesday with my buddy. And
there was nobody there. It
was just a Tuesday at
one o'clock and it was
quiet. And I happened to
be there when some of
the, the, the, the veterans
and some of the older
folks, I think there were
probably upwards of 90 years
old sitting there with an
enigma machine and the Bomba
behind them. And they didn't
have anything to do. Right.
He's 90, he's volunteering. And
he's like, Hey, you know,
you want to see something.
And we sat there and
we talked to this guy
for two and a half
hours. He did a complete
encryption run, showed us how
the enigma worked, did it,
cracked it on the Bomba.
And we sat there and
we did like, hello world
on an enigma with an
actual, you know, a person
who knew every, every bit,
every button, every wire, it
was absolutely extreme. That's amazing.
That is absolutely amazing. Yeah.
Yeah. I really hope that
the kids, my kids, particularly,
I have a 12 year
old and 14 year old
as they have been exposed
and, and marinaded effectively in
Lego for their entire life
will be able to take
these kinds of things and
realize that these are really
embedded systems. Like this is
a full on legitimate medicine.
Like the ones you worked
on at GE. Yeah. You
know what, that's one of
the really amazing parts for
me is, is when I
see a kids, whether they're
programming and scratch or Python,
that the minute you get
a kid to write a
program that turns on a
motor, I mean, turning on
lights and setting pixels, that's
pretty cool. But when you
can turn on a motor,
drive your robot where you
want to go and set
a con, you know, then
the next step is okay,
well, I'd like to make
it stop on a, on
a black line. So you
put a line of black
tape on your table, you
run it forward and you
write a little loop that
constantly looks at your light
sensor. And yeah, I want
to stop when it gets
to black. When I see
black and they're like, Oh,
wow, that's really cool. What
can I do next? So
they are automatically kind of
drawn into, you know, what
can I do next? Or
if I can stop on
a line, can I follow
a line? Right. So it's,
it's a, it's a, it's
a really, it kind of
never ends, right. It really
never ends where you can
go. And I know you
talk a lot about where
in computer education, where do
I need to draw the
line? How far down do
I need to go? And
I'm guessing that's one of
your next questions. Well, cause
that's the thing that I
find so fascinating is that
there is value, I think
in knowing how to drive
a stick shift, but there's
also value in accepting the
fact that yeah, the Uber
driver knows how to handle
this car, but I still
enjoy taking it apart and
understanding what's going on. So
I think there's different kinds
of programmers. There's ones who
want Lego elements and they
will build amazing things with
them. And then there are
those who want to know,
wait a second, how did
you make the Lego element?
What's the plastic made up?
What's the metal inside of
this device. We have a
couple of ways of thinking
about that at Lego. And
one of the ones that
I find most accessible is
a low floor high ceiling.
So what that means is
that for, for kids and
adults that want to get
involved with, with spike prime
or any Lego technology components,
the floor should be low.
You should have a very
low step to get in,
to get started. But once
you're in the room, the
ceiling should be super high
so that you, no matter
how far you want to
go with it, you can
take it there. And that's
why I like the kind
of layers that we have.
We've got, we've got spike,
which is accessible and you
can usually get 95% of
the things you want done.
You can get that done
in, in, in scratch. If
you want to then take
the lid off and, and
programming Python, you can, you
can do that too. So
it's a, again, a system
that can build confidence because
not because it's hard to
fail, but because it's, it's,
it's pretty easy to write
programs that don't work right.
Or they don't perform as
expected. What the nice part
of it scratches. It it's,
it's the programs don't crash.
So it, it, it may
not do what you wanted
it to do, but you
can usually reason if you
build it up from small
enough pieces and systems. I
know it's another thing that
you're really in favor of
is systems thinking is don't
try to build the whole
robot at once. If you've
never built a robot, right.
You want to, first of
all, can I turn on
one motor? Can I control
the speed? Can I move
it forward and backwards? Awesome.
Now, can I do that
with two motors? How do
I make the robot spin?
How do I make it
move forward and backwards? Okay.
Now I need to add
a light sensor. Now I
can add a touch. So
just start building up your
capacity or capabilities and also
build your confidence. And that
to me is the really
big thing about spike prime
is it's, it's just accessible
buildable and a really good
confidence builder for young people.
Yeah. That confidence, that sense
of confidence. I know it's
a cliche word, but I
always talk about empowerment. The
idea that I can influence
the world around me, that
I am not just a
kid. You know, I'm a
maker, I'm an engineer. I
D I did that. I
told it, I commanded it,
what to do. And it
did that thing. Now, what
else can I do? Right.
And, and I built it,
right. I, I, I took
familiar Lego elements and I
combined them in, in the
ways that I had control
of. And then I made
it, I made a robot
do what I wanted it
to do, what my 12
year old is already trying
to figure out how to
make an alarm. So if
the 14 year old comes
into his room, that they'll
somehow he'll be notified. So
he wants a burglar alarm.
Well, he's going to love
the ultrasonic sensor then. Fantastic.
So the spike prime is
a primarily for kids six
to eight, but really any
age is appropriate. And it
is again, compatible with Lego
boost, Lego technic sets some
of the classic Lego pieces,
and you can go and
check it out is shipping
now@education.lego.com. I really appreciate you
chatting with me today, sir.
Hey, that's been great. Thanks
very much. Scott. We've been
talking with Ralph Hemphill from
Lego systems. This has been
another episode of .